---
Company: Wizards of the Coast
Operator: asmith
author: asmith
changed: '2004-04-15T13:33:00'
created: '2004-04-07T11:07:00'
generator: 'LibreOffice 6.1.5.2 (Linux)'
title: |
    This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under
    the terms of the Open Game License v1
---

This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under
the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.

POWER LIST

\

An ^**A**^ appearing at the end of a power's name in the power lists
denotes an augmentable power. An ^**X**^ denotes a power with an XP
component paid by the manifester.

**Power Chains:** Some powers reference other powers that they are based
upon. Only information in a power later in the power chain that is
different from the base power is covered in the power being described.
Header entries and other information that are the same as the base power
are not repeated. The same holds true for powers that are the
equivalents of spells, only the way the power varies from the spell is
noted, such as power point cost.

**Order of Presentation:** In the power lists and the power descriptions
that follow them, the powers are presented in alphabetical order by
name---except for those belonging to certain power chains and those that
are psionic equivalents of spells*.* When a power's name begins with
"lesser," "greater," "mass," or a similar kind of qualifier, the power
description is alphabetized under the second word of the power
description instead. When the effect of a power is essentially the same
as that of a spell, the power's name is simply "Psionic" followed by the
name of the spell, and it is alphabetized according to the spell name.

**Manifester Level:** A power's effect often depends on the manifester
level, which is the manifester's psionic class level. A creature with no
classes has a manifester level equal to its Hit Dice unless otherwise
specified. The word "level" in the power lists always refers to
manifester level.

**Creatures and Characters:** "Creatures" and "characters" are used
synonymously in the power descriptions.

**Augment:** Many powers vary in strength depending on how many power
points you put into them. The more power points you spend, the more
powerful the manifestation. However, you can spend only a total number
of points on a power equal to your manifester level, unless you have an
ability that increases your effective manifester level.

Many powers can be augmented in more than one way. When the Augment
section contains numbered paragraphs, you need to spend power points
separately for each of the numbered options. When a paragraph in the
Augment section begins with "In addition," you gain the indicated
benefit according to how many power points you have already decided to
spend on manifesting the power.

\

PSION/WILDER POWERS

##### 1ST-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#st-level-psionwilder-powers .western}

**Astral Traveler:** Enable yourself or another to join an *astral
caravan*-enabled trip.

**Attraction**^**A**^**:** Subject has an attraction you specify.

**Bolt**^**A**^**:** You create a few enhanced short-lived bolts,
arrows, or bullets.

**Call to Mind:** Gain additional Knowledge check with +4 competence
bonus.

**Catfall**^**A**^**:** Instantly save yourself from a fall.

**Conceal Thoughts:** You conceal your motives.

**Control Flames**^**A**^**:** Take control of nearby open flame.

**Control Light:** Adjust ambient light levels.

**Create Sound:** Create the sound you desire.

**Crystal Shard**^**A**^**:** Ranged touch attack for 1d6 points of
piercing damage.

**Daze, Psionic**^**A**^**:** Humanoid creature of 4 HD or less loses
next action.

**Deceleration**^**A**^**:** Target's speed is halved.

**Déjà Vu**^**A**^**:** Your target repeats his last action.

**Demoralize**^**A**^**:** Enemies become shaken.

**Detect Psionics:** You detect the presence of psionics.

**Disable**^**A**^**:** Subjects incorrectly believe they are disabled.

**Dissipating Touch**^**A**^**:** Touch deals 1d6 damage.

**Distract:** Target gets --4 bonus on Listen, Search, Sense Motive, and
Spot checks.

**Ecto Protection**^**A**^**:** An astral construct gains bonus against
*dismiss ectoplasm*.

**Empathy**^**A**^**:** You know the subject's surface emotions.

**Empty Mind**^**A**^**:** You gain +2 on Will saves until your next
action.

**Energy Ray**^**A**^**:** Deal 1d6 energy (cold, electricity, fire, or
sonic) damage.

**Entangling Ectoplasm:** You entangle a foe in sticky goo.

**Far Hand**^**A**^**:** Move small objects at a limited distance.

**Float**^**A**^**:** You buoy yourself in water or other liquid.

**Force Screen**^**A**^**:** Invisible disc provides +4 shield bonus to
AC.

**Grease, Psionic:** Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery.

**Hammer**^**A**^**:** Melee touch attack deals 1d8/round.

**Inertial Armor**^**A**^**:** Tangible field of force provides you with
+4 armor bonus to AC.

**Know Direction and Location:** You discover where you are and what
direction you face.

**Matter Agitation:** You heat a creature or object.

**Mind Thrust**^**A**^**:** Deal 1d10 damage.

**Missive**^**A**^**:** Send a one-way telepathic message to subject.

**My Light**^**A**^**:** Your eyes emit 20-ft. cone of light.

**Precognition, Defensive**^**A**^**:** Gain +1 insight bonus to AC and
saving throws.

**Precognitionion, Offensive**^**A**^**:** Gain +1 insight bonus on your
attack rolls.

**Prescience, Offensive**^**A**^**:** Gain +2 insight bonus on your
damage rolls.

**Sense Link**^**A**^**:** You sense what the subject senses (single
sense).

**Skate:** Subject slides skillfully along the ground.

**Synesthete:** You receive one kind of sense when another sense is
stimulated.

**Telempathic Projection:** Alter the subject's mood.

**Vigor**^**A**^**:** Gain 5 temporary hit points.

##### 2ND-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#nd-level-psionwilder-powers .western}

**Bestow Power**^**A**^**:** Subject receives 2 power points.

**Biofeedback**^**A**^**:** Gain damage reduction 2/--.

**Body Equilibrium:** You can walk on nonsolid surfaces.

**Cloud Mind:** You erase knowledge of your presence from target's mind.

**Concealing Amorpha:** Quasi-real membrane grants you concealment.

**Concussion Blast**^**A**^**:** Deal 1d6 force damage to target.

**Control Sound:** Create very specific sounds.

**Detect Hostile Intent:** You can detect hostile creatures within 30
ft. of you.

**Ego Whip**^**A**^**:** Deal 1d4 Cha damage and daze for 1 round.

**Elfsight:** Gain low-light vision, +2 bonus on Search and Spot checks,
and notice secret doors.

**Energy Adaptation, Specified**^**A**^**:** Gain resistance 10 against
one energy type.

**Energy Push**^**A**^**:** Deal 2d6 damage and knock subject back.

**Energy Stun**^**A**^**:** Deal 1d6 damage and stun target if it fails
both saves.

**Feat Leech**^**A**^**:** Borrow another's psionic or metapsionic
feats.

**Id Insinuation**^**A**^**:** Swift tendrils of thought disrupt and
confuse your target.

**Identify, Psionic:** Learn the properties of a psionic item.

**Inflict Pain**^**A**^**:** Telepathic stab gives your foe --4 on
attack rolls, or --2 if he makes the save.

**Knock, Psionic:** Opens locked or psionically sealed door.

**Levitate, Psionic:** You move up and down, forward and back via mental
support.

**Mental Disruption**^**A**^**:** Daze creatures within 10 feet for 1
round.

**Missive, Mass**^**A**^**:** You send a one-way telepathic message to
an area.

**Psionic Lock:** Secure a door, chest, or portal.

**Recall Agony**^**A**^**:** Foe takes 2d6 damage.

**Sense Link, Forced:** Sense what subject senses.

**Share Pain:** Willing subject takes some of your damage.

**Sustenance:** Go without food and water for one day.

**Swarm of Crystals**^**A**^**:** Crystal shards are sprayed forth doing
3d4 slashing damage.

**Thought Shield**^**A**^**:** Gain PR 13 against mind-affecting powers.

**Tongues, Psionic:** You can communicate with intelligent creatures.

##### 3RD-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#rd-level-psionwilder-powers .western}

**Body Adjustment**^**A**^**:** You heal 1d12 damage.

**Body Purification**^**A**^**:** You restore 2 points of ability
damage.

**Danger Sense**^**A**^**:** You gain +4 bonus against traps.

**Darkvision, Psionic:** See 60 ft. in total darkness.

**Dismiss Ectoplasm:** Dissipates ectoplasmic targets and effects.

**Dispel Psionics**^**A**^**:** Cancels psionic powers and effects.

**Energy Bolt**^**A**^**:** Deal 5d6 energy damage in 120-ft. line.

**Energy Burst**^**A**^**:** Deal 5d6 energy damage in 40-ft. burst.

**Energy Retort**^**A**^**:** Ectoburst of energy automatically targets
your attacker for 4d6 damage once each round.

**Energy Wall:** Create wall of your chosen energy type.

**Eradicate Invisibility**^**A**^**:** Negate invisibility in 50-ft.
burst.

**Keen Edge, Psionic:** Doubles normal weapon's threat range.

**Mental Barrier**^**A**^**:** Gain +4 deflection bonus to AC until your
next action.

**Mind Trap**^**A**^**:** Drain 1d6 power points from anyone who attacks
you with a telepathy power.

**Psionic Blast:** Stun creatures in 30-ft. cone for 1 round.

**Share Pain, Forced**^**A**^**:** Unwilling subject takes some of your
damage.

**Solicit Psicrystal**^**A**^**:** Your psicrystal takes over your
concentration power.

**Telekinetic Force**^**A**^**:** Move an object with the sustained
force of your mind.

**Telekinetic Thrust**^**A**^**:** Hurl objects with the force of your
mind.

**Time Hop**^**A**^**:** Subject hops forward in time 1 round/level.

**Touchsight**^**A**^**:** Your telekinetic field tells you where
everything is.

**Ubiquitous Vision:** You have all-around vision.

##### 4TH-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#th-level-psionwilder-powers .western}

**Aura Sight**^**A**^**:** Reveals creatures, objects, powers, or spells
of selected alignment axis.

**Correspond:** Hold mental conversation with another creature at any
distance.

**Death Urge**^**A**^**:** Implant a self-destructive compulsion.

**Detect Remote Viewing:** You know when others spy on you remotely.

**Dimension Door, Psionic:** Teleports you short distance.

**Divination, Psionic:** Provides useful advice for specific proposed
action.

**Empathic Feedback**^**A**^**:** When you are hit in melee, your
attacker takes damage.

**Energy Adaptation**^**A**^**:** Your body converts energy to harmless
light.

**Freedom of Movement, Psionic:** You cannot be held or otherwise
rendered immobile.

**Intellect Fortress**^**A**^**:** Those inside fortress take only half
damage from all powers and psi-like abilities until your next action.

**Mindwipe**^**A**^**:** Subject's recent experiences wiped away,
bestowing negative levels.

**Personality Parasite:** Subject's mind calves self-antagonistic
splinter personality for 1 round/level.

**Power Leech:** Drain 1d6 power points/round while you maintain
concentration; you gain 1/round.

**Psychic Reformation**^**X**^**:** Subject can choose skills, feats,
and powers anew for previous levels.

**Telekinetic Maneuver**^**A**^**:** Telekinetically bull rush, disarm,
grapple, or trip your target.

**Trace Teleport**^**A**^**:** Learn destination of subject's
*teleport*.

**Wall of Ectoplasm:** You create a protective barrier.

##### 5TH-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#th-level-psionwilder-powers-1 .western}

**Adapt Body:** Your body automatically adapts to hostile environments.

**Catapsi**^**A**^**:** Psychic static inhibits power manifestation.

**Ectoplasmic Shambler:** Foglike predator deals 1 point of damage/two
levels each round to an area.

**Incarnate**^**X**^**:** Make some powers permanent.

**Leech Field**^**A**^**:** Leech power points each time you make a
saving throw.

**Major Creation, Psionic:** As *psionic minor creation*, plus stone and
metal.

**Plane Shift, Psionic:** Travel to other planes.

**Power Resistance:** Grant PR equal to 12 + level.

**Psychic Crush**^**A**^**:** Brutally crush subject's mental essence,
reducing subject to --1 hit points.

**Shatter Mind Blank:** Cancels target's *mind blank* effect.

**Tower of Iron Will**^**A**^**:** Grant PR 19 against mind-affecting
powers to all creatures within 10 ft. until your next turn.

**True Seeing, Psionic**^**A**^**:** See all things as they really are.

##### 6TH-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#th-level-psionwilder-powers-2 .western}

**Aura Alteration**^**A**^**:** Repairs psyche or makes subject seem to
be something it is not.

**Breath of the Black Dragon**^**A**^**:** Breathe acid for 11d6 damage.

**Cloud Mind, Mass:** Erase knowledge of your presence from the minds of
one creature/level.

**Contingency, Psionic**^**X**^**:** Sets trigger condition for another
power.

**Co-opt Concentration:** Take control of foe's concentration power.

**Disintegrate, Psionic**^**A**^**:** Turn one creature or object to
dust.

**Fuse Flesh**^**A**^**:** Fuse subject's flesh, creating a helpless
mass.

**Overland Flight, Psionic:** You fly at a speed of 40 ft. and can
hustle over long distances.

**Remote View Trap:** Deal 8d6 points electricity damage to those who
seek to view you at a distance.

**Retrieve**^**A**^**:** Teleport to your hand an item you can see.

**Suspend Life:** Put yourself in a state akin to suspended animation.

**Temporal Acceleration**^**A**^**:** Your time frame accelerates for 1
round.

##### 7TH-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#th-level-psionwilder-powers-3 .western}

**Decerebrate:** Remove portion of subject's brain stem.

**Divert Teleport:** Choose destination for another's *teleport*.

**Energy Conversion:** Offensively channel energy you've absorbed.

**Energy Wave**^**A**^**:** Deal 13d4 damage of your chosen energy type
in 120-ft. cone.

**Evade Burst**^**A**^**:** You take no damage from a burst on a
successful Reflex save.

**Insanity**^**A**^**:** Subject is permanently *confused.*

**Mind Blank, Personal:** You are immune to scrying and mental effects.

**Moment of Prescience, Psionic:** You gain insight bonus on single
attack roll, check, or save.

**Oak Body**^**A**^**:** Your body becomes as hard as oak.

**Phase Door, Psionic:** Invisible passage through wood or stone.

**Sequester, Psionic**^**X**^**:** Subject invisible to sight and remote
viewing; renders subject comatose.

**Ultrablast**^**A**^**:** Deal 13d6 damage in 15-ft. radius.

##### 8TH-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#th-level-psionwilder-powers-4 .western}

**Bend Reality**^**X**^**:** Alters reality within power limits.

**Iron Body, Psionic:** Your body becomes living iron.

**Matter Manipulation**^**X**^**:** Increase or decrease an object's
base hardness by 5.

**Mind Blank, Psionic:** Subject immune to mental/emotional effects,
scrying, and remote viewing.

**Recall Death:** Subject dies or takes 5d6 damage.

**Shadow Body:** You become a living shadow (not the creature).

**Teleport, Psionic Greater:** As *psionic teleport*, but no range limit
and no off-target arrival.

**True Metabolism:** You regenerate 10 hit points/round.

##### 9TH-LEVEL PSION/WILDER POWERS {#th-level-psionwilder-powers-5 .western}

**Affinity Field:** Effects that affect you also affect others.

**Apopsi**^**X**^**:** You delete target's psionic powers.

**Assimilate:** Incorporate creature into your own body.

**Etherealness,** Psionic: Become ethereal for 1 min./level.

**Microcosm**^**A**^**:** Creature or creature lives forevermore in
world of his own imagination.

**Reality Revision**^**X**^**:** As *bend reality*, but fewer limits.

**Timeless Body:** Ignore all harmful, and helpful, effects for 1 round.

\

PSION DISCIPLINE POWERS

##### EGOIST (PSYCHOMETABOLISM) DISCIPLINE POWERS {#egoist-psychometabolism-discipline-powers .western}

**1 Thicken Skin**^**A**^**:** Gain +1 enhancement bonus to your AC for
10 min./level.

**2 Animal Affinity**^**A**^**:** Gain +4 enhancement to one ability.

**Chameleon:** Gain +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.

**Empathic Transfer**^**A**^**:** Transfer another's wounds to yourself.

**3 Ectoplasmic Form:** You gain benefits of being insubstantial and can
fly slowly.

**Hustle:** Instantly gain a move action.

**4 Metamorphosis:** Assume shape of creature or object.

**Psychic Vampire:** Touch attack drains 2 power points/level from foe.

**5 Psionic Revivify**^**A**^ ^**X**^. Return the dead to life before
the psyche leaves the corpse.

**Psychofeedback:** Boost Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution at the
expense of one or more other scores.

**Restore Extremity:** Return a lost digit, limb, or other appendage to
subject.

**6 Restoration, Psionic:** Restores level and ability score drains.

**7 Fission:** You briefly duplicate yourself.

**8 Fusion**^**X**^**:** You combine your abilities and form with
another.

**9 Metamorphosis, Greater**^**X**^**:** Assume shape of any nonunique
creature or object each round.

\

###### KINETICIST (PSYCHOKINESIS) DISCIPLINE POWERS {#kineticist-psychokinesis-discipline-powers .western}

**1 Control Object:** Telekinetically animate a small object.

**2 Control Air**^**A**^**:** You have control over wind speed and
direction.

**Energy Missile**^**A**^**:** Deal 3d6 energy damage to up to five
subjects.

**3 Energy Cone**^**A**^**:** Deal 5d6 energy damage in 60-ft. cone.

**4 Control Body**^**A**^**:** Take rudimentary control of your foe's
limbs.

**Energy Ball**^**A**^**:** Deal 7d6 energy damage in 20-ft. radius.

**Inertial Barrier:** Gain DR 5/--.

**5 Energy Current**^**A**^**:** Deal 9d6 damage to one foe and half to
another foe as long as you concentrate.

**Fiery Discorporation**^**A**^**:** Cheat death by discorporating into
nearby fire for one day.

**6 Dispelling Buffer:** Subject is buffered from one *dispel psionics*
effect.

**Null Psionics Field:** Create a field where psionic power does not
function.

**7 Reddopsi:** Powers targeting you rebound on manifester.

**8 Telekinetic Sphere, Psionic:** Mobile force globe encapsulates
creature and moves it.

**9 Tornado Blast**^**A**^**:** Vortex of air subjects your foes to 17d6
damage and moves them.

######   {#section .western}

###### NOMAD (PSYCHOPORTATION) DISCIPLINE POWERS {#nomad-psychoportation-discipline-powers .western}

**1 Burst:** Gain +10 ft. to speed this round.

**Detect Teleportation**^**A**^**:** Know when teleportation powers are
used in close range.

**2 Dimension Swap**^**A**^**:** You and ally or two allies switch
positions.

**Levitate, Psionic:** Subject moves up and down, forward and back, at
your direction.

**3 Astral Caravan**^**A**^**:** You lead *astral traveler*-enabled
group to a planar destination.

**4 Dimensional Anchor, Psionic:** Bars extra dimensional movement.

**Dismissal, Psionic:** Forces a creature to return to its native plane.

**Fly, Psionic:** You fly at a speed of 60 ft.

**5 Baleful Teleport**^**A**^**:** Destructive teleport deals 9d6
damage.

**Teleport, Psionic:** Instantly transports you as far as 100
miles/level.

**Teleport Trigger:** Predetermined event triggers *teleport.*

**6 Banishment, Psionic**^**A**^**:** Banishes extraplanar creatures.

**7 Dream Travel**^**A**^**:** Travel to other places through dreams.

**Ethereal Jaunt, Psionic:** Become ethereal for 1 round/level.

**8 Time Hop, Mass**^**A**^**:** Willing subjects hop forward in time.

**9 Teleportation Circle, Psionic:** Circle teleports any creatures
inside to designated spot.

Time Regression^**X**^: Relive the last round.

\

SEER (CLAIRSENTIENCE) DISCIPLINE POWERS

**1 Destiny Dissonance:** Your dissonant touch sickens a foe.

**Precognition:** Gain +2 insight bonus to one roll.

**2 Clairvoyant Sense:** See and hear a distant location.

**Object Reading**^**A**^**:** Learn details about an object's previous
owner.

**Sensitivity to Psychic Impressions:** You can find out about an area's
past.

**3 Escape Detection:** You become difficult to detect with
clairsentience powers.

**Fate Link**^**A**^**:** You link the fates of two targets.

**4 Anchored Navigation**^**A**^**:** Establish a mishap-free *teleport*
beacon.

**Remote Viewing**^**X**^**:** See, hear, and potentially interact with
subjects at a distance.

**5 Clairtangent Hand**^**A**^**:** Emulate *far hand* at a distance.

**Second Chance**^**X**^**:** Gain a reroll.

**6 Precognition, Greater:** Gain +4 insight bonus to one roll.

**7 Fate of One:** Reroll any roll you just failed.

**8 Hypercognition:** You can deduce almost anything.

**9 Metafaculty**^**X**^**:** You learn details about any one creature.

**Reality Revision**^**X**^**:** Break the laws of reality.

\

SHAPER (METACREATIVITY) DISCIPLINE POWERS

**1 Astral Construct**^**A**^**:** Creates astral construct to fight for
you.

**Minor Creation, Psionic:** Creates one cloth or wood object.

**2 Psionic Repair Damage:** Repairs construct of 3d8 hit points +1
hp/level.

**3 Concealing Amorpha, Greater:** Quasi-real membrane grants you total
concealment.

**Ectoplasmic Cocoon**^**A**^**:** You encapsulate a foe so it can't
move.

**4 Fabricate, Psionic:** Transforms raw goods to finished items.

**Quintessence:** You collapse a bit of time into a physical substance.

**5 Hail of Crystals**^**A**^: A crystal explodes in an area, dealing
9d4 slashing damage.

**6 Crystallize:** Turn subject permanently to crystal.

**Fabricate, Greater Psionic:** Transforms a lot of raw goods to
finished items.

**7 Ectoplasmic Cocoon, Mass:** You encapsulate all foes in a 20-ft.
radius.

**8 Astral Seed:** You plant the seed of your rebirth from the Astral
Plane.

**9 Genesis**^**X**^**:** You instigate a new demiplane on the Astral
Plane.

**True Creation**^**X**^**:** As *psionic major creation*, except items
are completely real.

\

TELEPATH (TELEPATHY) DISCIPLINE POWERS

**1 Charm, Psionic**^**A**^**:** Makes one person your friend.

**Mindlink**^**A**^**:** You forge a limited mental bond with another
creature.

**2 Aversion**^**A**^**:** Subject has aversion you specify.

**Brain Lock**^**A**^**:** Subject cannot move or take any mental
actions.

**Read Thoughts:** Detect surface thoughts of creatures in range.

**Suggestion, Psionic:** Compels subject to follow stated course of
action.

**3 Crisis of Breath**^**A**^: Disrupt subject's breathing.

**Empathic Transfer, Hostile**^**A**^**:** Your touch transfers your
hurt to another.

**False Sensory Input**^**A**^**:** Subject sees what isn't there.

**4 Dominate, Psionic**^**A**^**:** Control target telepathically.

**Mindlink, Thieving**^**A**^**:** Borrow knowledge of a subject's
power.

**Modify Memory, Psionic:** Changes 5 minutes of subject's memories.

**Schism:** Your partitioned mind can manifest lower level powers.

**5 Metaconcert**^**A**^**:** Mental concert of two or more increases
the total power of the participants.

**Mind Probe:** You discover the subject's secret thoughts.

**6 Mind Switch**^**A**^**,** ^**X**^**:** You switch minds with
another.

**7 Crisis of Life**^**A**^: Stop subject's heart.

**8 Mind Seed**^**X**^**:** Subject slowly becomes you.

**9 Mind Switch, True**^**X**^**:** A permanent brain swap.

**Psychic Chirurgery**^**X**^**:** You repair psychic damage or impart
knowledge of new powers.

\

PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS

##### 1ST-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS {#st-level-psychic-warrior-powers .western}

**Astral Traveler:** Enable yourself or another to join an *astral
caravan*-enabled trip.

**Biofeedback**^**A**^**:** Gain DR 2/--.

**Bite of the Wolf:** Gain bite attack for 1d8 damage.

**Burst:** Gain +10ft. to speed this round.

**Call Weaponry**^**A**^**:** Create temporary weapon.

**Catfall**^**A**^**:** Instantly save yourself from a fall.

**Chameleon:** Gain +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.

**Claws of the Beast**^**A**^**:** Your hands become deadly claws.

**Compression**^**A**^**:** You grow smaller.

**Conceal Thoughts:** You conceal your motives.

**Detect Psionics:** You detect the presence of psionics.

**Dissipating Touch**^**A**^**:** Touch deals 1d6 damage.

**Distract:** Subject gets --4 on Listen, Search, Sense Motive, and Spot
checks.

**Elfsight:** Gain low-light vision, +2 bonus on Search and Spot checks,
and notice secret doors.

**Empty Mind:** Gain +2 on Will saves until your next action.

**Expansion**^**A**^**:** Become one size category larger.

**Float**^**A**^**:** Buoy yourself in water or other liquid.

**Force Screen**^**A**^**:** Invisible disc provides +4 shield bonus to
AC.

**Grip of Iron**^**A**^**:** Your iron grip gives +4 bonus on grapple
checks.

**Hammer**^**A**^**:** Melee touch attack deals 1d8/round.

**Inertial Armor**^**A**^**:** Tangible field of force provides you with
+4 armor bonus to AC.

**Metaphysical Claw**^**A**^**:** Your natural weapon gains +1 bonus.

**Metaphysical Weapon**^**A**^**:** Weapon gains +1 bonus.

**My Light**^**A**^**:** Your eyes emit 20-ft. cone of light.

**Precognition, Defensive**^**A**^**:** Gain +1 insight bonus to AC and
saving throws.

**Precognition, Offensive**^**A**^**:** Gain +1 insight bonus on your
attack rolls.

**Prescience, Offensive**^**A**^**:** Gain +2 insight bonus on your
damage rolls.

**Prevenom**^**A**^**:** Your claws gain a poison coating.

**Prevenom Weapon**^**A**^**:** Your weapon is mildly venomous.

**Skate:** Subject slides skillfully along the ground.

**Stomp**^**A**^**:** Subjects fall prone and take 1d4 nonlethal damage.

**Synesthete:** You receive one kind of sense when another sense is
stimulated.

**Thicken Skin**^**A**^**:** Gain +1 enhancement bonus to your AC for 10
min./level.

**Vigor**^**A**^**:** Gain 5 temporary hit points.

##### 2ND-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS {#nd-level-psychic-warrior-powers .western}

**Animal Affinity**^**A**^**:** Gain +4 enhancement to one ability.

**Body Adjustment**^**A**^**:** Heal 1d12 damage.

**Body Equilibrium:** You can walk on nonsolid surfaces.

**Body Purification**^**A**^**:** Restore 2 points of ability damage.

**Concealing Amorpha:** Quasi-real membrane grants you concealment.

**Darkvision, Psionic:** See 60 ft. in total darkness.

**Detect Hostile Intent:** You can detect hostile creatures within 30
ft. of you.

**Dimension Swap**^**A**^**:** You and an ally switch positions.

**Dissolving Touch**^**A**^**:** Your touch deals 4d6 acid damage.

**Dissolving Weapon**^**A**^**:** Your weapon deals 4d6 acid damage.

**Empathic Transfer**^**A**^**:** Transfer another's wounds to yourself.

**Energy Adaptation, Specified**^**A**^**:** Gain resistance 10 to one
energy type.

**Feat Leech**^**A**^**:** Borrow another's psionic or metapsionic
feats.

**Hustle:** Instantly gain a move action.

**Levitate, Psionic:** You move up and down, forward and back, via
mental support.

**Painful Strike**^**A**^**:** Your natural weapons deal an extra 1d6
nonlethal damage.

**Prowess:** Instantly gain another attack of opportunity.

**Psionic Scent:** Gain the scent ability.

**Psionic Lion's Charge**^**A**^**:** You can make full attack in same
round you charge.

**Strength of My Enemy**^**A**^**:** Siphon away your enemy's strength
and grow stronger.

**Sustenance:** You can go without food and water for one day.

**Thought Shield**^**A**^**:** Gain PR 13 against mind-affecting powers.

**Wall Walker:** Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings.

##### 3RD-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS {#rd-level-psychic-warrior-powers .western}

**Claws of the Vampire:** Heal half of your claw's base damage.

**Concealing Amorpha, Greater:** Quasi-real membrane grants you total
concealment.

**Danger Sense:** Gain +4 bonus against traps.

**Dimension Slide**^**A**^**:** Teleports you very short distance.

**Duodimensional Claw:** Increases your natural weapon's threat range.

**Ectoplasmic Form:** You gain benefits of being insubstantial and can
fly slowly.

**Empathic Feedback**^**A**^**:** When you are hit in melee, your
attacker takes damage.

**Empathic Transfer, Hostile**^**A**^**:** Your touch transfers your
hurt to another.

**Escape Detection:** You become difficult to detect with clairsentience
powers.

**Evade Burst**^**A**^**:** You take no damage from a burst on a
successful Reflex save.

**Exhalation of the Black Dragon**^**A**^**:** Your acid breath deals
3d6 damage to a close target.

**Graft Weapon:** Your hand is replaced seamlessly by your weapon.

**Keen Edge, Psionic:** Doubles normal weapon's threat range.

**Mental Barrier**^**A**^**:** Gain +4 deflection bonus to AC until your
next action.

**Ubiquitous Vision:** You have all-around vision.

**Vampiric Blade:** You heal half of your base weapon damage.

##### 4TH-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS {#th-level-psychic-warrior-powers .western}

**Claw of Energy:** Your claws deal additional energy damage.

**Dimension Door, Psionic:** Teleports you short distance.

**Energy Adaptation**^**A**^**:** Your body converts energy to harmless
light.

**Freedom of Movement, Psionic:** You cannot be held or otherwise
rendered immobile.

**Immovability:** You are almost impossible to move and gain DR 15/--.

**Inertial Barrier:** Gain DR 5/--.

**Psychic Vampire. Touch attack drains 2 power points/level from foe.**

**Steadfast Perception:** Gain immunity to illusory effects, +6 bonus on
Spot and Search checks.

**Truevenom:** Your natural weapons are covered in horrible poison.

**Truevenom Weapon:** Your weapon is horribly poisonous.

**Weapon of Energy:** Weapon deals additional energy damage.

##### 5TH-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS {#th-level-psychic-warrior-powers-1 .western}

**Adapt Body:** Your body automatically adapts to hostile environments.

**Catapsi**^**A**^**:** Psychic static inhibits power manifestation.

**Metaconcert**^**A**^**:** Mental concert of two or more increases the
total power of the participants.

**Oak Body**^**A**^**:** Your body becomes as hard as oak.

**Psychofeedback:** Boost Str, Dex, or Con at the expense of one or more
other scores.

##### 6TH-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS {#th-level-psychic-warrior-powers-2 .western}

**Breath of the Black Dragon**^**A**^**:** Breathe acid for 11d6 damage.

**Dispelling Buffer:** You are buffered from one *dispel psionics*
effect.

**Form of Doom**^**A**^**:** You transform into a frightening tentacled
beast.

**Mind Blank, Personal:** You are immune to scrying and mental effects.

**Suspend Life:** Put yourself into a state akin to suspended animation.

\
